real estate in Canada has been in a
bubble for years only those with a six
figure salary are able to actually
purchase homes in the major cities such
as Toronto and Vancouver in a world
where nearly 100% of household income is
consumed by their costs to keep it it
will only be a matter of time before the
trend reverses and Slaughters The
Spectators you came here for the truth
so let me unveil that for you let's talk
about Canada today hello to all my
fellow
Canadians this also applies to many
regions around the world so despite
where you are hang in there stay tuned
let's get into it right away and make it
quick and concise as possible Canada's
GDP declined okay we're to looking at
this here for October the numbers are
not staggering but they are
important the GDP shrank unexpectedly in
October as factories suffered their
worst month in almost 3 years adding to
signs of the country's Outlook is
worsening that's something that I
definitely would agree
with output fell
0.3% and essentially what they're
worried about widespread declines in
Goods producing Industries contributed
to the largest monthly drop since May
when you have a Commodities exporting
nation which Canada is considered to be
that anytime these Commodities are not
really doing well they're not in a bull
market the country is going to suffer
and they can devalue their currency in
order to be more attractive to exports
but if people simply aren't buying
you're going to be in big trouble big
trouble because the currency can decline
yet you're not able to export so people
are really getting hurt in two ways this
here just goes to show how dependent
some nations are on particular
Industries and what Canada is relying on
at this time is the Housing Industry it
is considered to be that safe haven that
many have been profiting off of for
quite some
time you can't sustain an economy on
housing it just doesn't work like that
there isn't enough industry
to build all of these homes and simply
just continue
building and have this generate an
infinite rise in the economy it doesn't
work like that there are supply and
demand fundamentals which need to be uh
abided by and that is not happening
right now in Canada it's very clear in
Vancouver and
Toronto all right let's just move on
here what we're talking about is Canada
but also the US Energy firms including
Imperial oil and BP will get a year of
consultations to hash out the fate of
their rights in Canada's Arctic after
prime minister Justin Trudeau drilling
freeze set the stage for dispute over
license extensions Canadian leader and
the US president said this week that
they would designate most of North
American Arctic Waters off limits to new
activity including all future oil and
gas Licensing in Canadian Waters
and essentially what they're trying to
do is talking this is all for in
relation
to
the trying to preserve the environment
and everything
else what I would say not to get into
that detail of that the
environment this year isn't good I
believe for the economy I don't think
that it is a good idea in that regard
simply because the economy is isn't
doing well and there needs to be uh more
expansion in Industry perhaps not the
best industry sometimes I'm just talking
just economically
here all right look at this Canada
pension plan investment board sold its
45% stake in the former uh this building
here part of the Rockefeller Center
complex in Midtown Manhattan for a
billion doll the only reason I'm
mentioning this right here is talking
about pensions and how desperate people
are
to have their pensions payout when they
retire this is something
that will afflict not just Canadians or
those in the US but essentially
everywhere around the world we have
these unfunded
liabilities which are going to hurt
people so they're relying on their homes
in a way in Canada right now to
consistently be worth more year after
year and we'll get into that more in
just a
moment simultaneously hoping that their
pensions and their retirement
accounts will be there to satisfy the
continuing increase in the cost of
living including the purchases needed to
maintain a home of course of course many
people particularly those who are
purchasing homes now or in the last few
years are going to be holding on to
their mortgages many of them for a very
long time and if they still have that
mortgage by the time they retire there's
really no way they can retire because
the prices are going to drown them the
amount of um debt that they carry will
drown them
look at this here how Canada's economy
went from boom to recession so fast and
there's a lot of detail in this article
here that I'm simply not going to get
into but hang in there for a moment the
crash it's referring this article was
actually from last year but it was very
relevant and uh allows me to segue into
the next topic talking about the crash
in uh
China particularly last year the crash
has done something else it has laid bare
serious problems with The Narrative of
China's growth miracle and the health of
the resource countries that increasingly
depend on it it's also raised questions
about beijing's revered ability to
successfully manage the levers of his
economy while the extreme and Desperate
Measures are taken by officials to
arrest China's stock crash from jailing
short sellers to imposing outright bands
you remember that on stock sales by
large shareholders
and then it said it flashed warning
signs about what's in store for Canada
as China continues to
slump think about that what does Canada
do well collaps in oil
prices began more than a year ago
resumed as of late snuffed out Alberta's
energy boom more quickly and deeply than
anyone expected so what we were saying
here is how these two countries
interconnect Canada and China now think
about Canada as an exp exporting Nation
they're exporting to China but they're
also of course exporting to the US so
think about this just for just one
second as you see China perhaps
requiring less or they're purchasing
from different
partners they're able to do those things
on their own mine their own things use
their own things then you have the us if
they're not doing well if they're in a
recession Canada cannot export to them
either so it's sort of a trap if Canada
is not able to consume everything that
it's uh mining or anything else all the
different Commodities they are not going
to be able to Simply utilize it it's
going to sit there it's going to
stockpile prices are going to decline on
them and this has been a problem clearly
uh with oil for different
reasons let's look at this okay this is
huge huge huge
news anyone who lives in Toronto or
Vancouver you know exactly what I'm
talking about for those who live in
Manhattan San Francisco and countless
other places around the world you know
what I'm talking about but check this
out Toronto is inching closer to
Vancouver when it comes to housing
prices
specifically this is according to the
RBC study look at this we're talking
about unaffordability okay that's
how crazy the prices have become that in
fact
63.7% of the typical household income in
the greater Toronto area is being
funneled into the costs of owning a home
okay that's including the mortgage
principal and interest property taxes
and utilities okay
64% is just to have a
home the the magnitude of that is
something that I don't believe was ever
conceived 50 years ago 100 years ago
where the prices were much much more
realistic Vancouver Remains the most
costly city in the country to own a home
with can you believe it
92% of the average household income
needed to pay ownership cost guess what
that's ridiculous just in case you
haven't figured that out for yourself
nearly 100%
of your money has to go to maintaining
your home what do you do when you want
to buy
food that's the 8% I guess want to be a
lot eating a lot of simple Foods that's
for
sure all
right it takes a six figure household
income to be able to afford a home in
the greater Toronto area then it talks
about these places that you have to
drive 90 minutes at least to be able to
afford a home and they still cost let's
let's pull out the highlighter why not
90 minutes from Toronto average home
cost
$373,000 Lake Simco for those who don't
know that's where people go up North for
their Cottage Country and you want to
live there and you're still paying
$373,000
look at this if you want to purchase a
home in the greater Toronto area you
need to have
$124,000 in your household income sure a
lot of people might be able to do that
but that's not even you know you're
doing well that's
$124,000 and you're able to afford
it and that's something that has gone
far beyond any sort of sense it's it's
gone far far beyond that's disgusting
it's
ridiculous the real estate technique
fueling Vancouver's housing market this
is talking about assignments and a lot
of people make money on assignments this
is a real estate technique that is legal
except for the little bit of uh
criminality the illegal that's going on
but I'll I'll explain that right
now assignments are
basically I want to buy my house from
you I agree to purchase it with an
assignment clause in the contract I put
a future date let's say 6 months from
now give myself some time because what
I'm going to do is actually sell that
contract to another buyer and that may
take me let's say it takes me 3 months
they then pick that up and I sell it at
a profit maybe I make
$50,000 that right there is netting
people all kinds of
profit despite the fact that there might
be closing costs or anything else
there's no land transfer taxes which are
unbelievable in Toronto at this time and
even in
Vancouver but what you see is prices
being driven up dramatically this
article also it's it's a huge article
but anyone interested in the real estate
market check this out check this article
out it's out of the Global Mail it gets
into all the details it's very
interesting and basically what they say
is that real estate agents are actually
picking up the foreign buyers at the
airport bringing them to the hotels they
pick them up in the morning and they hit
a neighborhood and they go from house to
house to house putting offers very high
offers making them very interesting for
people people the prices are being
jacked up so dramatically at this time
and there are different reasons for that
it's not just one reason it's not just
foreign buyers but you as I said also
the assignments there are there was one
example in here that the individual sold
his home for $ 1.6 million which would
seem really good however somebody bought
it tore the whole thing down put two
homes on the property and sold each for3
million I mean things like this are
happening and it has gone parabolic that
is the proper term that term is often
overused but in this case it's dramatic
and here's another
scene for some dramatic actions China to
boost economy by getting people to jump
out of planes essentially what they're
talking about is they're trying to fuel
the tourism and the industry that's uh
not really as popular as it could be but
the economy is expanding the markets are
opening up slowly but surely and this is
the kind of thing that uh you know
they're trying to get into trying to
bring money inward not just through
their conventional means the Public
Works projects and everything else
they're trying to get tourism in and
that has obviously expanded over the
years this year being one of them and
last but not least just want to show you
something
wonderful all right Merry Christmas to
everyone out there as I record this it's
probably 2:30 in the morning on
Christmas so here is Santa
Claus um just wishing you a merry
Christmas a happy New
Year and uh best wishes for
2017 I hope that Santa brought you what
you
wanted this is the wonderful Janet
Yellen Ben banki put together in
one so beautiful so wonderful
if you found this video informative
please give me a thumbs up if you like
what's on the screen right now give me a
thumbs
down if you found the video informative
I know you'll find my book The Money GPS
even more informative so check it out
it's at Amazon where you have a look
inside feature that allows you to flip
through the pages of the book and see if
you like it take care